the British man of letters Edmund Burke
founded modern conservatism in the 18th
century today a British man of letters
is redefining conservative for the 21st
with us today Sir Roger Scruton uncommon
knowledge now welcome to uncommon
knowledge I'm Peter Robinson born in
Lincolnshire during the second world war
the philosopher Roger Scruton represents
one of Britain's most significant
conservative intellectuals in the words
of one observer quote England's most
accomplished conservative since Edmund
Burke
close quote knighted last year Sir Roger
holds undergraduate and doctoral degrees
from Cambridge he is the author of more
than 50 books you write faster than I
can read including his most recent book
on human nature and his classic work how
to be a conservative Sir Roger Scruton
welcome thank you from how to be a
conservative it is not unusual to be a
conservative but it is unusual to be an
intellectual conservative in both
Britain and America some 70% of
academics identify themselves as on the
left while the surrounding culture is
increasingly hostile to traditional
values or to any claim that might be
made for the high achievements of
Western civilization the press the
bureaucracy the universities all hostile
to conservatism why it's a very good
question
I think I spent my life trying to answer
it in fact my impression is that this
hostility comes in part because people
who self-identify as intellectuals and
thinkers also want to identify
themselves as in some way outside the
community standing in judgment on it
gifted with superior insight and
intellect and therefore inevitably
critical of whatever whatever it is that
ordinary people do
by way of surviving you know and so we
have created an intellectual class which
which by its nature does not identify
with their way of life around it and and
tries to gain another kind of identity
through its critical stance and and
produces the paradox that within
academic circles and within the press to
be a liberal instead of a conservative
is almost boringly conventional yes
I mean that that's right there is a it
is the convention is to be hostile to
conventions right you begin I'm showing
this book because I want everybody to
get a good look at it it's a wonderful
book you begin how to be a conservative
with a marvelous essay on your own
journey from left to right and you
identify a couple of events in
particular is crucial in that journey in
the spring of 1968 you're in Paris mass
protests take place across France I
quote how to be a conservative May of
1968 led me to understand what I value
in the customs institutions and culture
of Europe Paris explodes and young Roger
Scruton decides to become conservative
not to join the students on the street
why I have gosh why I read for a start
the thing that most struck me about
those students in the street was the
sentiment sentimentality of their anger
it was all about themselves
it wasn't about anything objective here
they were the spoiled middle class
children baby boomers who never had any
real difficulty to cope with
shouting their heads off in the street
burning the cars belonging to ordinary
private Aryans whom those pretended to
be defending against some imaginary
oppressive structures erected by the
bourgeoisie the whole thing was a
complete fiction based on the antiquated
ideas of Karl Marx
ideas which were already redundant in
mid 19th century they were enacting out
if you like a self scripted drama in
which the central character was
themselves again from how to be a
conservative only someone raised in the
Anglosphere could believe as I believed
in the aftermath of 1968 that the
political alternative to revolutionary
socialism is conservatism only someone
raised in the Anglosphere yeah yes I
think if you look around the world at
those little parties and political
movements that identify themselves as
conservative it's only in Britain
America Australia possibly India that
people would even use that word because
there is a tradition which we have
inherited from Edmund Burke and the
reaction to the to the French Revolution
over recognizing that that there is an
alternative to revolutionary change and
that is not changing and this
extraordinary original idea only enters
the heads of english-speaking people I
don't know why he but is something to do
with the English language it's sort of
accommodation of of eccentricities the
fact that we live a life based on
compromise the common law which tells us
that the ordinary person is in charge of
the law not the people there who are
pretending to impose it on him now all
those things that we've inherited
forever from hundreds of years actually
of of discussion and debate they make it
natural for us to say you know let's not
change the second large event in your
own journey a visit to Poland and
Czechoslovakia in 1979 awoke me to the
fraud that had been committed in
socialism's name and I felt an immediate
obligation to do something about it
79 the Pope visits Poland you get the
feeling that things are beginning to
break up
but it
still the the iceberg is still sitting
on Eastern Europe yeah what happened in
in Czechoslovakia in Poland what did you
see what did it how did how are you well
you know I was there and parent in the
wake of the Pope pilgrimage to his
country and there was a visible sense of
that that we are we poles are together
against this thing which controls us but
people of course couldn't openly talk
about it and but but the people I met
talked to me about it and then when
going to Czechoslovakia where of course
the oppression was much heavier I got
involved in talking to people who were
actually trying to organize underground
seminars and university and underground
well curriculum if you like for young
people who have been excluded from the
system where there was a real
consciousness that it was a
life-and-death struggle either these
societies were going to be finally
killed off by communism or people were
going to try and keep them alive in the
catacombs and it was my first vision of
a catacomb culture which as it were
reenacted what the earlier early
christians had to go through in the
roman empire now you you also say you
felt an immediate obligation to do
something about it and as i you here
correct me but as I understand your
career but your training your formal
training is as a philosopher yeah and in
your lifetime philosophy is come on off
in all kinds of directions in this
country in particular and headed off and
in the direction of formal logic yes I
take it that you decided that you
intended to to continue to do the work
you intended to work in the tradition of
Aristotle philosophy as it bears on
ordinary political life is that correct
well yes I've always thought that
philosophy has ordinary life as its
subject matter that's what it's about
but it is also a reflection on ordinary
life and its meaning but when it came to
working in Eastern Europe my main
thought was that what young people
they're especially needed was not not
merely philosophy but but at the whole
range of knowledge which have been
excluded for from the official
curriculum for instance knowledge of
history not knowledge of literature not
knowledge of the way in which those
things connect how how music and art and
literature feed in to a vision of your
society and of course knowledge of the
religious traditions of their countries
now all those things had been excluded
by the Communist Party from from the
National sense of identity but it didn't
it didn't alter my view that they had
also been excluded from our societies
too by the universities themselves you
know most young people today leave a
university having studied history but
not actually knowing very much about it
they will know about the periods of
revolutionary struggle and other things
that have appeals to their professors as
as part of their own self-glorification
but they won't know the sort of things
that are as it were interred within the
spirit of the people your visit to
Poland and Czechoslovakia to a place
again in 1979 mrs. Thatcher becomes
prime minister in the same year your
views of mrs. Thatcher are a little more
complicated I think that an American
conservative would expect to read
picking up a book entitled how to be a
conservative on the one hand and again
I'm quoting in the midst of our
discouragement Margaret Thatcher
appeared as though by a miracle and that
surely I that surely is the way it felt
to many people on the other hand and
again I'm quoting Roger Scruton
quote I never swallowed in its entirety
the free-market rhetoric of the Thatcher
rights close quote so explain that
there's this miraculous being but
there's a lot of hogwash involved
well she came into into our lives
as a representative of our country at a
time when the country looked
particularly enfeebled by by the trade
unions by the whole labour party attempt
to rope the Rope society into a communal
prison run by the state
all that was wonderful we felt in a few
we don't actually have to go along with
all that crap we can we can do our own
thing and we can revert to our natural
condition as rebellious eccentric
Englishmen but she felt that she had to
embellish it with a complete doctrine
which she borrowed from the Institute of
Economic Affairs you know about the need
for a market eyes a market solutions to
every social problem now I'm all in
favor of market solutions where they
apply but not of every social problem
does have a market solution and there
are there is a need for the maintenance
of traditions in in education and in
culture and in the law which are not
traditions of free enterprise but much
more conditions of some kind of
collective renunciation you know people
Association of the state and a
renunciation of one's own individuality
you know that's what a culture is I
think partly and so and I think she
wasn't sensitive to all that part
aspects of things and you have to
remember that we inherited at the time
when she became prominent we inherited a
society in an economy that had been
radically changed by the second world
war and by the socialist governments
that came into being because of the
Second World War
you know people people wanted a
government based on planning because
they had felt that the war the war
showed the need for planning if it
hadn't been for planning we wouldn't
have survived it and we almost didn't
survive it because people weren't ready
for it etc what actually let me pursue
that point if I may because needless to
say here we sit in Washington in this
month of the Trump administration so I'm
going to I'm going to haul you from
Margaret Thatcher to Donald Trump even
if you come screaming so again how to be
a conservative pressed for arguments I'm
quoting you mrs. Thatcher leaned too
readily on market economics and ignore
the deeper roots of conservatism in the
theory and practice of civil society
you've just said this but I want to put
the empty it up again family civil
Association the Christian religion and
the common law were all integrated into
her ideal of freedom of the law the pity
was that she had no philosophy with
which to articulate that idea she felt
it
she knew it yeah but she'd not thought
it through and in a in a way that
permitted her to articulate it alright
here's mrs. Thatcher now if I may go a
step backward and I am doing something
very dangerous because my knowledge of
this history is tenuous and yours will
be deep Winston Churchill had the
capacity to articulate this in deeper
conservatism throughout the war he's
talking about love of native land he
uses the phrase he actually uses the
phrase which would today half the man
thrown in jail he uses the phrase
Christian civilization and yet in the
1945 election in the face of the
Socialists because he lacked a
vocabulary to talk about free markets he
was naked before an aptly and this
socialist impulse and so what I'm
getting at is it almost of course I want
to come to American the American
situation in a moment but it almost
seems to me as though there's a kind of
ideological teeter-totter conservatives
in Britain either get to talk about free
markets or they get to talk churchill
macmillan even to the extent that he
talked about anything heath later on or
they get to try to talk about cultural
conservatism somehow the two don't seem
to go together is there some reason for
that or is it Jameer happens that's a
very insightful observation I think
since Edmund Burke we've had this this
tension between the adoption of the free
market
as the instrument of economic
organization the into the primary way in
which a society should create and
exchange goods and the the sense that
some things should be withheld from the
market and that those things are just as
important but much more difficult to
defend and and of course Burke was
talking about those things that should
be withheld from the market love family
and and so on we've all societies have
recognized from the beginning of history
that a market in sexual relations is the
end of all social coherence but it's
been it's always very hard to say why
but that's just one example and you know
all the things that matter to us as soon
as you recognize how much they matter we
want to withdraw of them from the whole
business of exchange and proliferation
and as it were hug them to ourselves and
that is that it's that aspect of
humanity which is so difficult to to
articulate with but as you rightly say
Churchill did articulate it and it's it
was it's so much easier when it's under
threat of course all right we're
creeping up to trump but first one more
large question about Britain brexit last
June the United Kingdom held a
referendum on whether to remain in or to
leave the European Union and overturning
the predictions of virtually every poll
mm-hmm and virtually ever put every
pundit I myself as I'm sure I was on the
telephone to friends in very I thought
well-informed friends and the most Pro
brexit prediction I got on the day of
the voting was it'll be very
touch-and-go we'll have to see everybody
expected almost everybody expected
failed and it carried 52 to 48 percent
and close but at the same time
unambiguous Sir Roger Scruton speaking
on the BBC soon afterwards quote the
experts failed to see that the British
people are profoundly democratic
and do not accept to be governed by
bureaucrats who are not accountable for
their mistakes close quote
mm-hmm now one hears it said over and
over and over again that it was
xenophobia the Rex it was a reaction
against immigration and Roger Scruton
says it was a blow for democracy mm-hmm
explained well it could be both but I
think what has been the feelings of
opposition to the European Union of much
longer standing than the recent feelings
about the mass emigration from Europe
and they have been about the Democratic
candidate II you know the thought being
that you know more than half I think in
nearly two-thirds of the laws rubber
stamped by our Parliament originated in
Brussels in the minds of bureaucrats who
have no knowledge of or interest in the
peculiar social conditions of Britain
which are very peculiar because we
haven't been interfered with in this way
before so and people have resented that
and rightly because after all what is
democracy it is the if it's not the
ability of a people to decide for
themselves about the laws that operate
in the country that is theirs you know
and that that reference to the country
look at our country is absolutely
fundamental to the Democratic idea it is
true of course that pit that that
British people also reacted strongly to
the mass emigration the rate of sunlight
three hundred thousand three hundred
thousand a year of people from the
former communist countries you know they
they were brought into the European
Union without any mandate for any
popular mandate from the existing
members they were people living in a
country in countries ruined by communism
suddenly given the opportunity to settle
in places which were not so ruined
England and in particular in Britain in
general has the advantage that it's
infrastructure was not destroyed in the
war he speaks the international language
you know the freedom to settle there and
to enjoy what the British people had
defended a great costs themselves
it was certainly offered to these before
inevitably they all transferred to
Britain it and it's not xenophobia to to
recognize that your life if you're an
ordinary person your life has been
changed when suddenly people better
qualified the new computing of your job
where your child is going to a school
way English is the second language where
your right to social housing has been
conferred on people who never paid
anything to obtain it etc right ok one
more question about brexit you've spoken
about the peculiar customs of Britain
you've spoken about the distinctiveness
of the Anglosphere so is it your
position is it your position simply that
Britain ought to have left the European
Union or is it your position that the
European Union in it is bad for everyone
I mean one can see the Germans with war
guilt it would be lovely if they could
dissolve themselves in a new sense of
international identity Spain wanting to
rejoin Europe after the years of being
cut off on different you could create a
kind of psychological case for every
continent the Italians would far rather
have their money supply run by good
steady Germans than by their fellow
Italians and so on and so forth
so the European Union let the continent
have it it's just that it's improper for
us to be and one must be out or the
European Union is a nasty piece of work
in and of itself well I I would say what
I did say this prior to the vote that
that what is needed is not simply for us
to withdraw from the treaty what is
needed is a new treaty one that we could
accept and that everybody else could
accept too and my view is that treaties
are dead hands they weigh upon you may
be beneficially if they're restraining
you from doing
something that would otherwise be
destructive Astra peace treaties do but
they might actually prevent you from
taking the measures needed to cope with
the new situations a note of treaties
don't adapt and the more signatories to
them there are the less likely it is
that they ever will adapt and that is
the problem we were living under a
treaty signed 60 or 60 or conceived 70
years ago by people long since dead in a
situation that has vanished why should
we be governed by it because it is it's
unusual for a treaty in that it sets up
a system of government and so you have a
system of government which is
essentially non adaptable my view is get
rid of it and get it and everybody come
together again seeing if they can get
another kind of treaty which answers to
all their separate national interests
you know the poles take the poles that
they thought it was great to join them
the treaty because at last they would
have a system of law which which would
replace the complete nonsense of
communist legality they had access to
proper infrastructure and markets and so
on what they did not realize is that
they would also lose all their youth
so the Poland is in the state of
demographic collapse
everyone goes off yeah so yeah so
clearly you know each country has a
different problem likewise that the
Greeks thought you know our great the
single currency as you say is we can
transfer all our debts to those reliable
Germans and then suddenly they realized
but of course and you can no longer
govern our economy as we used to by
periodic devaluation and the result is a
total collapse in the youth employment
this country Trump from the British
referendum Eamon brexit to the election
of Donald Trump so Roger Scruton in a
talk on the BBC the week after the
American election quote in America as in
Britain the indigenous working class has
been put out of mind even overtly
disparaged by the media and the
political class all attempts to give
voice to their anxiety
he's over immigration over the impact on
their lives of globalization and the
spread of liberal conceptions of sex
marriage in the family have been
dismissed or silenced close quote first
question how can it be that when
Franklin Roosevelt seven decades ago in
establishing modern conservatism the a
bigger part in modern liberalism the
democratic of which the Democratic Party
is the great champion he placed the
working class at the very center of that
coalition how can it be that these
decades later that same party that same
liberalism has turned its back on the
indigenous working class how did it
happen yes what it's happened everywhere
I think again it's one of those deep
mysteries but I think there are two
important factors that contributed this
one is that the the change in the
economy which has transferred an awful
lot of economic activity to service
activities to thing activities that
could be conducted through the internet
or through or through companies based
outside the jurisdiction all that it
means that the old traditional working
class no longer has that cohesion that
it had before and it's no longer an
identifiable social mass in the way that
it was in Roosevelt's day that's one
very important thing there and the other
important thing is that the the liberal
establishment has ceased to represent
the interests of that class anyway it
represents the interests of people who
are saying that they represent the
interests of that class
it's a self-serving ideology of people
who want to appear virtuous without the
cost of it and people in the media the
Bureau of the administration and so on
who loved the image of themselves as
defenders of the people but recognize
that when in the proximity of the people
they feel nothing it set repugnance
you're making a moral point pride vanity
it all happened through pride and vanity
and sloth and inattention on the part of
very comfortable people well there is
that I said that's only one in fact all
right there also are lots of good people
who are liberals who really do worry
about these things
but I'm just talking about these new
social factors which we have to
recognize you you mentioned these
factors that are legitimate concerns
anxieties over immigration now again
when we'll hear over and over again the
American anxiety over immigration is
xenophobia it's just it's just immoral
to think you can draw a line at the
border and keep out the people in the
south of the border have immortal souls
just as those well of course the liberal
would doubt that but they're worth they
have as much value as all right then the
other bit one here is is it just
economically the more immigration the
more the economy grows and then a kind
of counter argument but still it's the
argument against the the concern for
immigration immigration is slowed as
Mexican as the Mexican middle class has
risen and partly because our economy is
slow netic net emigration from Mexico is
almost zero and net emigration from
everywhere else in the world is a
million people a year and in a
population of 330 million you can live
with that
so there are all these arguments why
should anyone be anxious over
immigration and yet you would argue I
think I take you to argue that it is
actually a legitimate concern in this
country well yes I mean again there are
many factors but illegal immigration has
been a great concern to people there are
10 million illegal immigrants possibly
in this country and I think ordinary
people say look if some if the first
thing that somebody does when coming
into the country is to commit a crime
should he really be allowed to stay you
know I think it is a very strong
argument of course legal immigration
which has the consent of Congress and
therefore the consent and interact with
the people is not something that that
people are complaining about in
not in the same tone of voice in any way
but then again you have to recognize
that what is being asked of the people
is to offer hospitality to those who are
not currently part of their home
you can offer hospitality to others if
you have a secure home from which to
offer it but if that home has become
insecure as it has in large parts of of
Europe because of immigration then what
what are you asking of people you're
asking of them essentially to D
territorial eyes themselves and to
detach themselves for the throne the
place that is there is you know without
giving them any alternative the spread
another of the concerns that you
mentioned I'm quoting you again the
spread of liberal conceptions of sex
marriage and the family and this is a
legitimate concern I'm here's the
difficulty about that one all the
figures divorce rate a legitimacy rates
and so forth all these are at least as
high among what it depends on how you
would define the indigenous working
class and so forth
hmm but the argument could be made that
the indigenous class has no right to be
the indigenous working class again I'm
using your phrase the indigenous working
class has no right to be upset about
these liberal conceptions of sex and
marriage in the family because they're
the ones who've embraced them hmm -
which Rodgers sir Roger Scruton replies
well I would reply that just that the we
all of us fall away from the standards
that are required in this area that
isn't it undoubtedly the case because
this is the the biggest area of
temptation but it is also the biggest
area in which examples are needed and in
which a culture of resistance is needed
that culture of resistance was
absolutely vital to the protection of
the working-class family and and
especially of children
you know who need a father at home and
have lost that protection and it is
undeniable that it's liberal propaganda
which has made it almost impossible to
say that those things and it's not
possible to say the things that are
needed in this area unless you're
Charles Murray and don't care about what
said about you anyway
or Sir Rodgers group well yeah that
makes two of you yeah exactly
the point is it's an area in which the
truth has been made unsayable by the the
liberal censorship and along comes
Donald Trump mmm and whereas mrs.
Thatcher made not exclusively but made
largely economic arguments Donald Trump
is making different kinds of arguments
you make America great again does Roger
Scruton approve of the 45th chief
executive of the United States well
that's a direct question which is not
strictly relevant to my vision of the
world but rewrite the question how do
you want to grapple with Donald Trump
well I'd rather not but of course his
defects of character are so manifest
that one can as it were recognize the
the recognize that he's put you in a new
position you know you've got he is the
legitimate President of the United
States and he won the election on the
basis of things which were rightly said
some things were rightly said and also
on the basis of other things which you
could criticize however which perhaps
should not have been so but did he have
the virtue to go back to the point you
were just making did he have the virtue
it points during the camp many points
during the campaign of saying the
unsaved yes that one of the reasons why
he was elected is exactly that
and what this is one thing that I said
in my BBC talk that you referred to
earlier that that people have been
living under a regime of liberal
censorship which makes it very hard to
say things without being accused of
faults like racism xenophobia you
yourself mentioned this which nobody
wants to be accused of but which are
very easy to these are accusations which
are very easy to make because there's no
criterion on the basis of which to make
them other than then the feelings
involved so if I may maybe this is the
way to ask you to address on the problem
mmm a man who's resistant to grapple
with him Trump and his critics and as I
read it and I have a couple of
quotations here for you criticisms of
Donald Trump you'll recognize partly of
course because you followed the American
scene very closely but partly because
they echo or have echoes and in Britain
here's John McCain speaking very
recently Senator John McCain speaking
very recently at the Munich Security
Conference in oblique but not that
oblique criticism of the president what
would the founders of this security
conference say if they saw our world
today they would be alarmed by an
increasing turn away from universal
values and toward old ties of blood and
race and sectarianism close quote Donald
Trump and also Sir Roger Scruton
champion the native land the the
indigenous the the the the the organic
culture and here you that can be called
your Couture you want to turn us back to
blood and soil blood and race and say
that that's the kind of language which I
I reject my my view is that that that
the country is a vital part of our
identity I don't mean by that blood and
soil in the Nazi sense I mean this land
the place where our jurisdiction
operates and this is a crucial thing
about the now
idea it's an a defense of territorial
jurisdiction against religious or quasi
religious jurisdictions like the
universal doctrine of human rights or
their Sharia to take another competitor
we live and we are fortunate and live in
countries where the law is defined by
the land over which it operates
and within that land of course there is
a sense of belonging on which the law
draws for the democratic process
this isn't there's nothing blood and
soil about this it's to do it
neighborhood we have we're settled among
neighbors we want to get along with them
we don't want to force them to agree
with us about everything nor do we
require them to be at the same race
whatever that means but we do require
them to share our commitment to the
place where we are because this is where
we are building a home and other people
might want to come into that home and we
should be entitled to invite them
provided they agree to abide by the
rules all this is perfectly reasonable
in my view and it's only because the
Left have dominated the language in
which these things are discussed that my
reasonable position can be made to look
like that unreasonable position I wish
you adjust attributing one more one more
criticism of Trump and this is his
now-famous executive order imposing a
temporary travel down from seven
countries in the Middle East where there
was been terrorism seven Muslim majority
countries as the press put it in
reporting on this and one of the sources
of immediate criticism was the United
States Conference of Catholic Bishops
here's their statement quote the part of
their state the bond between Christians
and Muslims is founded on the
unbreakable strength of charity and
justice welcoming the stranger is the
very form of Christianity itself the
actions of our government must remind
people of basic humanity close quote
well there you get you've heard this
before there you get the notion that
drawing lines at the border is from the
Catholics it's unchristian from others
it's immoral
who are you who was Donald Trump who was
Sir Roger Scruton who was Prime Minister
may to say we have the right to keep
people out
hmm well I mean you have a house which
you share with your wife and children or
assuming you have had them and you do
recognize the right to keep out of that
house people whom you've not invited in
don't you I do well and having invited
people in who start smashing things up
you have recognized the right to exclude
them thank you yeah and that just
multiplied that by a few hundred
thousand and you've recognized that
people taken as a whole have that right
that is part another part of democracy
and that we live in a place we have the
right to exclude from that place those
whom we think are not going to fit into
it off to whom we don't want to extend a
welcome this is if we didn't have that
right we wouldn't feel secure in
occupying the place that we claim as
ours this is a simple part of human
nature and although I think Trump should
never have mentioned the Muslim idea in
this that work because that goes against
the whole American tradition that that
religion is not what it's about but but
settlement you know nevertheless he
wasn't exceeding the natural powers of a
president in saying what he said if he'd
left out that reference to religion and
you know he did make various promises to
people the prior to the election which
he is obviously in a some obligation to
follow through anyway last question soon
Roger
if I feel this way to some extent
actually I feel this way to upgrade
Excel just ask this question on my own
behalf I was about to hide behind and
say there will be people who are
listening to this feel I won't do that
I'll say I feel it myself
wonderfully compelling everything you
say hugely attractive but here's where I
and any of causes my vibe this fills
fills the heart with hope there's a way
forward but then comes the thought oh
but it's nostalgic hmm it's the shire
it's talking for goodness sake even
England isn't green and pleasant in
quite the same way anymore and we've got
in Britain itself this massive for all
one can see permanent state apparatus
and in this country as President Trump
is about to find out as Republicans who
now hold both houses of Congress and can
barely pull themselves together to
figure out how to a deal with Obamacare
are finding out there is such a thing as
the permanent state and we live in a
modern world and for seven decades at
least seven decades in both your country
and mine throughout the Anglosphere
let's let's grant you the Anglosphere
the state has expanded and expanded and
expanded and I love the world that you
describe with the same your yearning
love that I with which I love tolki hmm
but they belong on the bookshelf
together it's not a practical agenda
right tell me why I'm wrong and please
tell me why I'm wrong
well you're not entirely wrong ah there
the expansion of the state to absorb
more and more of civil society has
happened everywhere more outside the
Anglosphere than in
scientist veer let's face it you still
have private education available here if
you want it and can afford it you still
have all the little little platoons as
Burt called and you if you have a
problem you can get together the or
neighbors too to solve it you can you
know you you probably belong to all
sorts of clubs and and discussion groups
and so on know all that free association
which made the english-speaking
countries what they are still exists
it's just that there's a tax on it
roughly speaking half of what you ever
you earn which goes to maintain a sort
of shadow community of parasites who
whose only justification is that they
pretend to be governing us you have to
you know you belong in an organism which
goes which is accompanied by a cancerous
version of itself that's the way it is
all you can do is is every now and then
diminish it if you know to cut off this
all that bit of it but it will always be
there but at the same time focusing on
the other thing is not nostalgia
although nostalgia is an underrated
aspect of the human condition remember
the the founding work of literature of
our civilization describes Odysseus's
decision to give up immortality and life
with the goddess in order to travel
across dangerous seas to his home you
know it set the model for what we are
what all our literature since has been
about and all our art and why turn away
from that that is we are in this world
in as dispossessed and alienated and we
do have that longing for a home and we
try to build it and that's all I'm
advocating is that we should go on doing
this it'll always be a different home
but but you know it isn't
anyway nostalgia to say that this is
where our values lie
in that other thing that great expanding
state machine alright that was
penultimate question here's the last
question brexit has happened Britain has
a new government there hasn't been an
election still the Tories but you have a
new Prime Minister and we have a new
president are you hopeful I've never in
my life being hopeful I take the view
that pessimism is the wise position to
adopt because you're always agreeably
surprised all right sir Roger Scruton
author of more than 50 books including
the superb how to be a conservative
thank you thank you for the Hoover
Institution and uncommon knowledge I'm
Peter Robinson
[Music]